#This was an entry for the strategy session of World's Greatest Sourcer.

Greetings Leadership Team, 

We're excited to share the Talent Acquisition team's approach to attracting 
world-class Quantitative Risk Analysts (QRAs) to our growing team. 

Our focus is clear - attract and retain dedicated and talented risk analysts. 
Our recruiting mission is to do more with less - that is, low and no-cost 
recruiting activities. We are confident this strategy will empower us to scale 
and deliver more QRAs like our most recent successful hires.

We are looking to attract superb quantitative and analytical thinkers
with a solid theoretical foundation coupled with strong programming.
Extremely focused, results oriented and highly productive, our QRAs are
overachievers by nature (you should know!) We know it will take far more
than a “post and pray” approach to capture the interest of our target
prospects.

Our goals, in order of priority, are as follows:

Build a process that works. Attracting talent means nothing if the
selection process is ineffective. We need managers who are willing to
make champion calls for hard-to-woo prospects. We need an HR team that
is open to inviting a candidate on campus for lunch before the
application stage to expose them to our unique culture. Simply put - a
customized and flexible approach.

Build a pipeline that is strong. We know what types of people make the
best QRAs for our teams. We know what soft skills successful QRAs must
possess to navigate our dynamic landscape. Our identification lenses are
sharp. Let us find them.

Build a culture that speaks for itself. With the right, consistent
message about the people, stories, and tenants that have built us into a
global powerhouse, we will be able to build a brand that doesn’t need
extensive strategies. Those in the know will flock to us. We aren’t
there yet, but we will be eventually.

**Here are 10 resources/approaches we will use to hire talented QRAs.**

-   Referrals Rock - We have a few interesting ideas that will entice
    multiple, quality referrals, including exclusive garb/branded
    merchandise for those that refer quality hires.
-   Indeed - This free resume search tool will serve as a “low hanging
    fruit” that will provide us consistent access directly to analysts
    who are in the market or were recently. Both passive and active
    talent pools can yield winning outcomes. We will leave no (free or
    low-cost) stone unturned!
-   Google Custom Search Engines (CSEs) - this will allow us to scour
    the net quickly for target types (like these profiles, accessible
    free via LinkedIn http://goo.gl/8h5ukx) CSEs allow us to grab
    resumes, find personal blogs, locate conference attendee lists, and
    pretty much uncover anything on the deep web related to risk
    analysis professionals.
-   University outreach/Professional partnerships - We have a plan in
    place that will allow us to partner with career centers and
    professors on campuses across the US (starting with the top 50
    universities where many of you have strong alumni ties). We will
    focus on attracting prospects within the following majors:
    Mathematics, Statistics, Electrical Engineering, Finance, and
    Economics. Additionally, we will allocate time monthly for each of
    our recruiters to establish relationships with local chapters of
    professional groups like The Society for Risk Analysis (SRA).
-   Social Media Campaigns - Our team will guide the company through
    weekly Twitter/Facebook/Pinterest/SlideShare campaigns which will
    allow employees to share news and events. We will leverage our
    YouTube page and go video viral this year! \#riskyThursdays
    \#analyzeTHIS
-   Volunteerism - Getting our internal teams excited about our company
    mission/culture will be essential to our overall strategy. We will
    present 4-6 volunteer activities to our teams annually, and allow
    each person to choose the mission that speaks to them. By getting
    active in our community, we will build connections that may not
    normally be uncovered through our high tech initiatives. We will, of
    course, share our adventures on social media and our company sites
    as appropriate! \#stepawayfromthedesk \#dogood \#diversitycounts
    \#weinvest
-   Branding - We will borrow a little bit of the old-school for this
    one. No, not classified ads. We were thinking hosting local free
    seminars for the neighboring community, and being a visible partner
    in our local high schools (future interns). We believe this will
    spark interest from the right type of QRA who will go beyond the
    numbers and into the heart of what motivates us.
-   Competitions - A good old fashioned battle of the intellects will
    allow the cream to rise to the surface. We have an idea for a
    month-long quantitative challenge sponsored by QRM, BlackRock
    Aladdin, Moody’s Risk Frontier and MUREX. Administered online, the
    top 10% of contestants can be targeted for a streamlined prospecting
    process. This allows potential QRAs to demonstrate their skills, and
    allows us to gather far more intel than we even could in traditional
    face to face interviews.
-   Host Meetups/Share insights - Our team is already made up of the
    industry’s finest. This strategy requires active engagement from
    you, our senior leadership team. Are you willing and ready to
    invest? We know the answer is yes! We will start with Google+
    Hangouts/Meetups where we gather aspiring/current Risk Analysts to
    glean insights from industry leaders.
-   Open house/Meet and Greets - For every candidate we don’t select,
    there are two who remain loyal fan of the brand. Let’s tap into
    those hundreds of applicants in our database who have never been
    contacted, and re-energize their interest in us an employer of
    choice.

Our methods range from social recruiting and pounding the pavement to
maximizing our internal networks and sharing our insights with the
general public. By developing forward-thinking strategies that generate
interest from seasoned QRAs, we are positioning ourselves to grow,
retain, and cultivate the best. We look forward to hearing your thoughts
on how we can improve on our plan. We are even more excited to announce
our first Meetup, scheduled 6 weeks from now and led by…one of you! Save
the date. We’ll see you there.

Your Talent Finding partners, 
Maisha + The Team
